This is one of multiple SPF troubleshooting videos.
In this scenario we've been told that rider 1 is not able to pain brought a full let's test that Ken
wrote a paying the loot back brought a full answer is no show IP wrote We are receiving who is France.
So we are receiving a raft for the looped back of routed to we are receiving a raft for Network 10 1
2 0.
But we are not receiving other runs show IP or SPF neighbor confirms that we have a neighbour relationship
to brought it to so as an example we can ping the loop back of right to disable IP domain lookup to
make trace raft complete quicker and let us see if we can trace to Rob for the trace in this example
will not leave the local Rada because we don't have a gateway of last resort and we don't have a specific
brought to quadruple full.
So the traces simply dropped at the local Rada.
Now what about trotted to show IP a whisper from neighbor rather to his neighbour relationship to RADA
a one but doesn't have a neighbour relationship to RADA a three can run it to ping router three.
Yes it can.
So it doesn't look like it's an IP connectivity problem.
It looks like it's something else Ken wrote a three ping right to yes it can show IP of SPF neighbor
rather three has a neighbour relationship to write a for but not to write it too so we definitely have
a problem between wrote a tune a three so in it to show IP or SPF interface brief or SPF is enabled
on gigabit to 00 and gigabit 0 1 shows GDP neighbours shows us that rather a three is connected to gigabit
to 0 1 so SPF is enabled on that interface the local Rod is a designated Rata back on not a 3 show IP
SPF interface brief SPF is enabled on gigabit 00 and gigabit 0 1 we can see that crowd too is connected
to gigabit 0 1 so 0 SPF is enabled on this interface and the local Rada believes that it's the designated
Rada so we have to Rodders on the same segment thinking that they are the designated roads let's have
a look at the interface without brief so show IPO SPF interface gigabits 0 1 we can see the IP address
of the router.
The area is area zero router ideas this network top is broadcast.
Cost is 1.
There's no backup designated rudder on the segment.
We can see the hollow and other timers we can see a lot of other information here.
What about on this side.
So show IP SPF interface gigabit 0 1.
Can you spot the problem.
What's the problem between Roddick to and wrote a three here's a two.
He has wrought three.
What's the problem OK.
Look at the timer's 4 0 SPF to form neighbor relationships.
The timers must be the same the hollow timer on Ryder 3 is 30 seconds whereas it's 10 seconds on right
to dead interval on the side is 40 the side at 220.
Wait is 40 hundred and twenty reruns but it's five and five also have a look at the network type.
That's a broadcast.
This is a non broadcast if you want SPF routers to form a neighbor relationship.
The time is need to be the same.
Timers can be influenced by the network command Ethernet is a broadcast multi access environment not
a non broadcast environment that would be used for frame relay as an example.
So we need to set the 0 SPF network type to broadcast and notice as soon as I've done that neighbor
relationships are formed if you look at the time is noticed the timers here are now the same
as Roger two.
Time is a set the same show IP of SPF neighbors.
We have two neighbor relationships set back on right of one is rather one able to trace two could ripple
for.
Yes it is.
That looks a lot better.
So we can ping could ripple for as an example.
That was an SPF troubleshooting scenario.
Make sure that your time is all the same.
Check your network times no SPF it's important that the 0 SPF and network types be the same for CCMA.
There are some weird and wonderful implementations that you can have with over SPF but that's not important
for CCMA check your network types.
Check your timers ensure that they the same between Rodders.
Hope you enjoyed this video.
If it was of benefit to you please like it.
And please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.